it is uncontroversial that the human
brain has capabilities that are in some
respects far superior to those of all
other known objects in the cosmos
it is the only kind of object capable of
understanding that the cosmos is even
there
or why there are infinitely many prime
numbers
or that apples fall because of the
curvature of space-time
or that obeying its own inborn instincts
can be morally wrong
or that it itself exists
nor are its unique abilities confined to
such cerebral matters
the cold physical fact is that it is the
only kind of object that can Propel
itself into space and back without harm
or predict and prevent a meteor strike
on itself
or cool objects to a billionth of a
degree above absolute zero or detect
others of its kind across Galactic
distances
but no brain On Earth Is Yet close to
knowing what brains do in order to
achieve any of that functionality
the Enterprise of achieving it
artificially
the field of artificial general
intelligence or AGI
has made no progress whatever during the
entire six Decades of its existence
why because
as an unknown Sage once remarked it
ain't what we don't know that causes
trouble it's what we know for sure that
just ain't so
and if you know that that Sage was Mark
Twain then what you know ain't so either
I cannot think of any other significant
field of knowledge in which the
prevailing wisdom not only in society at
large but also among experts is so beset
with entrenched overlapping fundamental
errors
yet it has also been one of the most
self-confident fields in prophesying
that it will soon achieve the ultimate
breakthrough
despite this long record of failure AGI
must be possible and that is because of
a deep property of the laws of physics
namely the universality of computation
this entails that everything that the
laws of physics require a physical
object to do can in principle be
emulated in arbitrarily fine detail by
some program on a general purpose
computer provided it is given enough
time and memory
the first people to guess this and to
Grapple with its ramifications
where the 19th century mathematician
Charles Babbage and his collaborator Ada
Countess of Lovelace
note in the original version of this
article I erroneously referred to Ada
Lovelace as babbage's assistant rather
than collaborator
the universality of computation remained
a guess until the 1980s when I proved it
using the quantum theory of computation
Babbage Came Upon universality from an
unpromising Direction
he had been much exercised by the fact
that tables of mathematical functions
such as logarithms and cosines contained
mistakes
at the time they were compiled by armies
of Clerks known as computers which is
the origin of the word
Being Human the computers were fallible
there were elaborate systems of error
correction but even proofreading for
typographical errors was a nightmare
such errors were not merely inconvenient
and expensive they could cost lives
for instance the tables were extensively
used in navigation
so Babbage designed a mechanical
calculator which he called The
Difference Engine
it would be programmed by initializing
certain cogs the mechanism would drive a
printer in order to automate the
production of the tables that would
bring the error rate down to negligible
levels to the Eternal benefit of
humankind
unfortunately
babbage's project management skills were
so poor that despite spending vast
amounts of his own and the British
government's money he never managed to
get the machine built
yet his design was sound and has since
been implemented by a team led by the
engineer doron swade at the science
museum in London
here was a cognitive task that only
humans had been able to perform
nothing else in the known universe even
came close to matching them
but the Difference Engine would perform
better than the best humans
and therefore even at that faltering
embryonic stage of the history of
automated computation before Babbage had
considered anything like AGI
we can see the seeds of a philosophical
puzzle that is controversial to this day
what exactly is the difference between
what the human computers were doing and
what the Difference Engine could do what
type of cognitive task if any could
either type of entity perform that the
other could not in principle perform too
one immediate difference between them
was that the sequence of Elementary
steps of counting adding multiplying by
10 and so on that the Difference Engine
used to compute a given function did not
mirror those of the human computers that
is to say they used different algorithms
in itself that is not a fundamental
difference the Difference Engine could
have been modified with additional gears
and levers to mimic the humans algorithm
exactly
yet that would have achieved nothing
except an increase in the error rate due
to increased numbers of glitches in the
more complex machinery
similarly the humans given different
instructions but no Hardware changes
would have been capable of emulating
every detail of the difference engines
method
and doing so would have been just as
perverse it would not have copied the
engine's main advantage its accuracy
which was due to Hardware not software
it would only have made an arduous
boring task even more arduous and boring
which would have made errors more likely
not less
Babbage knew that it could be programmed
to do algebra play chess compose music
process images and so on
for humans that difference in outcomes
the different error rate
would have been caused by the fact that
Computing exactly the same table with
two different algorithms
felt different
but it would not have felt different to
the Difference Engine it had no feelings
experiencing boredom was one of the many
cognitive tasks at which the Difference
Engine would have been hopelessly
inferior to humans
nor was it capable of knowing or proving
as Babbage did that the two algorithms
would give identical results if executed
accurately
still less was it capable of wanting as
he did to benefit seafarers and
humankind in general
in fact its repertoire was confined to
evaluating a tiny class of specialized
mathematical functions basically power
Series in a single variable
thinking about how he could enlarge that
repertoire Babbage first realized that
the programming phase of the engine's
operation could itself be automated the
initial settings of the cogs could be
encoded on punched cards and then he had
an Epoch making insight
the engine could be adapted to punch new
cards and store them for its own later
use making what we today call A computer
memory
if it could run for long enough powered
as he envisaged by a steam engine and
had an unlimited supply of blank cards
its repertoire would jump from that tiny
class of mathematical functions to the
set of all computations that can
possibly be performed by any physical
object
that's universality
Babbage called this improved machine the
analytical engine
he and Lovelace understood that its
universality would give it revolutionary
potential to improve almost every
scientific Endeavor and Manufacturing
process as well as everyday life
they showed remarkable foresight about
specific applications they knew that it
could be programmed to do algebra play
chess compose music process images and
so on unlike the Difference Engine it
could be programmed to use exactly the
same method as humans used to make those
tables and prove that the two methods
must give the same answers and do the
same error checking and proofreading
using say optical character recognition
as well
but could the analytical engine feel the
same boredom
could it feel anything
could it want to better the lot of
humankind or of analytical engine kind
could it disagree with its programmer
about its programming
here is where Babbage and lovelace's
insight failed them
they thought that some cognitive
functions of the human brain were beyond
the reach of computational universality
as Lovelace wrote
the analytical engine has no pretensions
whatever to originate anything it can do
whatever we know how to order it to
perform
it can follow analysis
but it has no power of anticipating any
analytical relations or truths
and yet originating things following
analysis and anticipating analytical
relations and truths are all behaviors
of brains
and therefore of the atoms of which
brains are composed such behaviors obey
the laws of physics
so it follows inexorably from
universality that with the right program
an analytical engine would undergo them
too atom by atom and step by step
true the atoms in the brain would be
emulated by metal cogs and levers rather
than organic material but in the present
context inferring anything substantive
from that distinction would be rank
racism
despite their best efforts
Babbage and Lovelace failed almost
entirely to convey their enthusiasm
about the analytical engine to others
in one of the great might of beings of
History the idea of a universal computer
languished on the back burner of human
thought
there it remained until the 20th century
when Alan Turing arrived with a
spectacular series of intellectual tour
de force laying the foundations of the
classical theory of computation
establishing the limits of computability
participating in the building of the
first Universal classical computer
and by helping to crack the Enigma code
contributing to the Allied victory in
the Second World War
touring fully understood universality in
his 1950 paper Computing machinery and
intelligence he used it to sweep away
what he called lady lovelace's objection
and every other objection both
reasonable and unreasonable
he concluded that a computer program
whose repertoire included all the
distinctive attributes of the human
brain feelings Free Will Consciousness
and all could be written
this astounding claim split the
intellectual world into two camps one
insisting that AGI was nonetheless
impossible and the other that it was
imminent both were mistaken the first
initially predominant Camp cited a
plethora of reasons ranging from the
supernatural to the incoherent all
shared the basic mistake that they did
not understand what computational
universality implies about the physical
world and about human brains in
particular
but it is the other Camp's basic mistake
that is responsible for the lack of
progress
it was a failure to recognize that what
distinguishes human brains from all
other physical systems is qualitatively
different from all other functionalities
and cannot be specified in the way that
all other attributes of computer
programs can be
it cannot be programmed by any of the
techniques that suffice for writing any
other type of program
nor can it be achieved merely by
improving their performance at tasks
that they currently do perform no matter
by how much why
I call the core functionality in
question
creativity the ability to produce new
explanations
for example
suppose that you want someone to write
you a computer program to convert
temperature measurements from centigrade
to Fahrenheit
even the Difference Engine could have
been programmed to do that
a universal computer like the analytical
engine could achieve it in many more
ways
to specify the functionality to the
programmer you might for instance
provide a long list of all inputs that
you might ever want to give it say all
numbers from minus 89.2 to Plus 57.8 in
increments of 0.1
with the corresponding correct outputs
so that the program could work by
looking up the answer in the list on
each occasion
alternatively you might State an
algorithm such as divide by 5 multiply
by 9 add 32 and round to the nearest
tenth
the point is that however the program
worked you would consider it to meet
your specification to be a bona fide
temperature converter if and only if it
always correctly converted whatever
temperature you gave it within the
stated range
now imagine that you require a program
with a more ambitious functionality to
address some outstanding problem in
theoretical physics say the nature of
dark matter with a new explanation that
is plausible and rigorous enough to meet
the criteria for publication in an
academic Journal
such a program would presumably be an
AGI and then some
but how would you specify its task to
computer programmers never mind that
it's more complicated than temperature
conversion there's a much more
fundamental difficulty
suppose You Were Somehow to give them a
list as with the temperature conversion
program of explanations of dark matter
that would be acceptable outputs of the
program
if the program did output one of those
explanations later
that would not constitute meeting your
requirement to generate new explanations
for none of those explanations would be
new
you would already have created them
yourself in order to write the
specification
so in this case
and actually in all other cases of
programming genuine AGI
only an algorithm with the right
functionality would suffice but writing
that algorithm without first making new
discoveries in physics and hiding them
in the program is exactly what you
wanted the programmers to do
traditionally discussions of AGI have
evaded that issue by imagining only a
test of the program not its
specification the traditional test
having been proposed by Turing himself
it was that human judges be unable to
detect whether the program is human or
not when interacting with it via some
purely textual medium so that only its
cognitive abilities would affect the
outcome
but that test
being purely Behavioral
gives no clue for how to meet the
Criterion
nor can it be met by the technique of
evolutionary algorithms
the Turing test cannot itself be
automated without first knowing how to
write an AGI program since the judges of
a program need to have the target
ability themselves
for how I think biological evolution
gave us the ability in the first place
see my book the beginning of infinity
and in any case AGI cannot possibly be
defined purely behaviorally
in the classic brain in a vat thought
experiment the brain when temporarily
disconnected from its input and output
channels is thinking feeling creating
explanations it has all the cognitive
attributes of an AGI
so the relevant attributes of an AGI
program do not consist only of the
relationship between its inputs and
outputs
the upshot is that unlike any
functionality that has ever been
programmed to date this one can be
achieved neither by a specification nor
a test of the outputs
what is needed is nothing less than a
breakthrough in philosophy
a new epistemological theory that
explains how brains create explanatory
knowledge and hence defines in principle
without ever running them as programs
which algorithms possess that
functionality and which do not
such a theory is beyond present day
knowledge
what we do know about epistemology
implies that any approach not directed
towards that philosophical breakthrough
must be futile
unfortunately what we know about
epistemology is contained largely in the
work of the philosopher Karl Popper and
is almost universally underrated and
misunderstood even or perhaps especially
by philosophers for example it is still
taken for granted by almost every
Authority that knowledge consists of
Justified true beliefs and that
therefore an agi's thinking must include
some process during which it justifies
some of its theories as true or probable
while rejecting others as false or
improbable
but an AGI programmer needs to know
where the theories come from in the
first place
the prevailing misconception is that by
assuming that the future will be like
the past it can derive or extrapolate or
generalize theories from repeated
experiences by an alleged process called
induction
but that is impossible I myself remember
for example observing on thousands of
consecutive occasions that on calendars
the first two digits of the year were
one nine
I never observed a single exception
until one day they started being 2-0
Not only was I not surprised I fully
expected that there would be an interval
of 17
000 years until the next such one nine
a period that neither I nor any other
human being had previously experienced
even once
how could I have extrapolated that there
would be such a sharp departure from an
unbroken pattern of experiences
and that a never yet observed process
the 17 000 year interval would follow
because it is simply not true that
knowledge comes from extrapolating
repeated observations nor is it true
that the future is like the past in any
sense that one could detect in advance
without already knowing the explanation
the future is actually unlike the past
in most ways
of course given the explanation those
drastic changes in the earlier pattern
of one nines are straightforwardly
understood as being due to an invariant
underlying pattern or law
but the explanation always comes first
without that any continuation of any
sequence constitutes the same thing
happening again under some explanation
so why is it still conventional wisdom
that we get our theories by induction
for some reason beyond the scope of this
article conventional wisdom adheres to a
Trope called the problem of induction
which asks how and why can induction
nevertheless somehow be done yielding
Justified true beliefs after all despite
being impossible and invalid
respectively
thanks to this Trope every disproof such
as that by Papa and David Miller back in
1988 rather than ending inductivism
simply causes the mainstream to Marvel
in even greater ore at the depth of the
great problem of induction
in regard to how the AGI problem is
perceived this has the catastrophic
effect of simultaneously framing it as
the problem of induction and making that
problem look easy because it casts
thinking as a process of predicting that
future patterns of sensory experience
will be like past ones
that looks like extrapolation which
computers already do all the time once
they are given a theory of what causes
the data
but in reality only a tiny component of
thinking is about prediction at all let
alone prediction of our sensory
experiences we think about the world not
just the physical world but also worlds
of abstractions such as right and wrong
Beauty and ugliness the infinite and the
infinitesimal causation fiction
fears and aspirations and about thinking
itself
now the truth is that knowledge consists
of conjectured explanations
guesses about what really is or really
should be or might be out there in all
those worlds
even in the hard Sciences these guesses
have no foundations and don't need
justification why because genuine
knowledge though by definition it does
contain truth almost always contains
error as well
so it is not true in the sense studied
in mathematics and logic thinking
consists of criticizing and correcting
partially true guesses with the
intention of locating and eliminating
the errors and misconceptions in them
not generating or justifying
extrapolations from sense data
and therefore attempts to work towards
creating an AGI that would do the latter
are just as doomed as an attempt to
bring life to Mars by praying for a
creation event to happen there
currently one of the most influential
versions of the induction approach to
AGI and to the philosophy of science
is bayesianism
unfairly named after the 18th century
mathematician Thomas Bayes who is quite
innocent of the mistake
the doctrine assumes that minds work by
assigning probabilities to their ideas
and modifying those probabilities in the
light of experience as a way of choosing
how to act
this is especially perverse when it
comes to an agi's values the moral and
aesthetic ideas that inform its choices
and intentions for it allows only a
behavioristic model of them in which
values that are rewarded by experience
are reinforced and come to dominate
Behavior while those that are punished
by experience are extinguished
as I argued above that behaviorist input
output model is appropriate for most
computer programming other than AGI but
hopeless for AGI
it is ironic that mainstream psychology
has largely renounced behaviorism which
has been recognized as both inadequate
and inhuman while computer science
thanks to philosophical misconceptions
such as inductivism
still intends to manufacture human type
cognition on essentially behaviorist
lines
furthermore despite the above mentioned
enormous variety of things that we
create explanations about
our core method of doing so namely
papyrian conjecture and criticism has a
single unified logic
hence the term General in AGI
a computer program either has that yet
to be fully understood logic in which
case it can perform human type thinking
about anything
including its own thinking and how to
improve it
or it doesn't in which case it is in no
sense an AGI
consequently another hopeless approach
to AGI is to start from existing
knowledge of how to program specific
tasks such as playing chess
or performing statistical analysis or
searching databases and then to try to
improve those programs in the hope that
this will somehow generate AGI as a side
effect has happened to Skynet in The
Terminator films
nowadays an accelerating stream of
marvelous and useful functionalities for
computers are coming into use some of
them sooner than had been foreseen even
quite recently
but what is neither marvelous nor useful
is the argument that often greets these
developments that they are reaching the
frontiers of AGI
and especially severe outbreak of this
occurred recently when a search engine
called Watson developed by IBM defeated
the best human player of a word
association database searching game
called Jeopardy
smartest machine on Earth the PBS
documentary series Nova called it and
characterized its function as mimicking
the human thought process with software
but that is precisely what it does not
do
the thing is playing Jeopardy like every
one of the computational functionalities
at which we rightly Marvel today
is firmly among the functionalities that
can be specified in the standard
behaviorist way that I discussed above
no Jeopardy answer will ever be
published in a journal of new
discoveries
the fact that humans perform that task
less well by using creativity to
generate the underlying guesses is not a
sign that the program has near human
cognitive abilities the exact opposite
is true for the two methods are utterly
different from the ground up
likewise when a computer program beats a
grand master at chess the two are not
using even remotely similar algorithms
the Grand Master can explain why it
seemed worth sacrificing the night for
strategic advantage and can write an
exciting book on the subject the program
can only prove that the sacrifice does
not force a Checkmate and cannot write a
book because it has no clue even what
the objective of a chess game is
programming AGI is not the same sort of
problem as programming Jeopardy or chess
the AGI is qualitatively not
quantitatively different from all other
computer programs
the Skynet misconception likewise
informs the hope that AGI is merely an
emergent property of complexity or that
increased computing power will bring it
forth as if someone had already written
an AGI program but it takes a year to
utter each sentence
it is behind the notion that the unique
abilities of the brain are due to its
massive parallelism or to its neuronal
architecture
two ideas that violate computational
universality
expecting to create an AGI without first
understanding how it works is like
expecting skyscrapers to learn to fly if
we build them tall enough
in 1950
Turing expected that by the year 2000
one will be able to speak of machines
thinking without expecting to be
contradicted
in 1968 Arthur C Clarke expected it by
2001.
and yet today in 2012 no one is any
better at programming an AGI than Turing
himself would have been
this does not surprise people in the
first camp
the dwindling band of opponents of the
very possibility of AGI
but for the people in the other Camp the
AGI is imminent one
such a history of failure cries out to
be explained or at least to be
rationalized away and indeed unfazed by
the fact that they could never induce
such rationalizations from experience as
they expect their agis to do they have
thought of many
the very term AGI is an example of one
the field used to be called AI
artificial intelligence
but AI was gradually appropriated to
describe all sorts of unrelated computer
programs such as game players search
engines and chat Bots until the G for
General was added to make it possible to
refer to the real thing again but now
with the implication that an AGI is just
a smarter species of chatbot
another class of rationalizations runs
along the general lines of AGI isn't
that great anyway existing software is
already as smart or smarter but in a
non-human way and we are too vain or
culturally biased to give it due credit
this gets some traction because it
invokes the persistently popular
irrationality of cultural relativism
and also the related Trope that we
humans pride ourselves on being the
Paragon of animals but that pride is
misplaced because they too have language
tools
and self-awareness
remember the significance attributed to
skynets becoming self-aware
that's just another philosophical
misconception sufficient in itself to
block any viable approach to AGI
the fact is that present-day software
developers could straightforwardly
program a computer to have
self-awareness in the behavioral sense
for example to pass the mirror test of
being able to use a mirror to infer
facts about itself if they wanted to
as far as I'm aware no one has done so
presumably because it is a fairly
useless ability as well as a trivial one
perhaps the reason that self-awareness
has its undeserved reputation for being
connected with AGI is that thanks to
Kurt girdle's theorem and various
controversies in formal logic in the
20th century
self-reference of any kind has acquired
a reputation for woo-woo mystery
so has consciousness
and here we have the problem of
ambiguous terminology again the term
Consciousness has a huge range of
meanings at one end of the scale there
is the philosophical problem of the
nature of subjective Sensations qualia
which is intimately connected with the
problem of AGI at the other
Consciousness is simply what we lose
when we are put under general anesthetic
many animals certainly have that
agis will indeed be capable of
self-awareness but that is because they
will be General they will be capable of
awareness of every kind of deep and
subtle thing including their own selves
this does not mean that Apes who pass
the mirror test have any hint of the
attributes of general intelligence of
which AGI would be the artificial
version
indeed Richard Burns wonderful Research
into Guerrilla memes has revealed how
apes are able to learn useful behaviors
from each other without ever
understanding what they are for
the explanation of how ape cognition
works really is behavioristic
ironically that group of
rationalizations AGI has already been
done is Trivial exists in Apes is a
cultural conceit
are mirror images of arguments that
originated in the AGI is impossible camp
for every argument of the form you can't
do AGI because you'll never be able to
program the human soul because it's
supernatural
the AGI is easy Camp has the
rationalization if you think that human
cognition is qualitatively different
from that of Apes You Must Believe in a
supernatural soul
anything that we don't yet know how to
program is called human intelligence is
another such rationalization
it is the mirror image of the argument
Advanced by the philosopher John Searle
from The Impossible Camp who has pointed
out that before computers existed steam
engines and later Telegraph systems were
used as metaphors for how the human mind
must work
sir argues that the hope for AGI rests
on a similarly insubstantial metaphor
namely that the mind is essentially a
computer program
but that's not a metaphor the
universality of computation follows from
the known laws of physics
some such as the mathematician Roger
Penrose
have suggested that the brain uses
Quantum computation or even hyper
Quantum computation relying on as yet
unknown physics Beyond quantum theory
and this explains the failure to create
AGI on existing computers
to explain why I and most researchers in
the quantum theory of computation
disagree that this is a plausible source
of the human brain's unique
functionality is beyond the scope of
this essay if you want to know more read
lit at Al's 2006 paper is the brain a
quantum computer published in the
journal cognitive science
that agis are people
has been implicit in the very concept
from the outset if there were a program
that lacked even a single cognitive
ability that is characteristic of people
then by definition it would not qualify
as an AGI
using non-cognitive attributes such as
percentage carbon content to Define
personhood would again be racist
but the fact that the ability to create
new explanations is the unique morally
and intellectually significant
functionality of people humans and agis
and that they achieve this functionality
by conjecture and criticism changes
everything
currently personhood is often treated
symbolically rather than factually as an
honorific a promise to pretend that an
entity an ape a fetus a corporation is a
person in order to achieve some
philosophical or practical aim
this isn't good never mind the
terminology change it if you like and
there are indeed reasons for treating
various entities with respect protecting
them from harm and so on all the same
the distinction between actual people
defined by that objective Criterion and
other entities has enormous moral and
practical significance and is going to
become vital to the functioning of a
civilization that includes agis
for example the mere fact that it is not
the computer but the running program
that is a person
raises unsolved philosophical problems
that will become practical political
controversies as soon as agis exist
once an AGI program is running in a
computer
to deprive it of that computer would be
murder
or at least false imprisonment or
slavery as the case may be just like
depriving a human mind of its body
but unlike a human body
an AGI program can be copied into
multiple computers at the touch of a
button
are those programs while they are still
executing identical steps I.E before
they have become differentiated due to
random choices or different experiences
the same person
or many different people do they get one
vote or many
is deleting one of them murder or a
minor assault
and if some Rogue programmer perhaps
illegally creates billions of different
AGI people either on one computer or
many what happens next
there are still people with rights do
they all get the vote
furthermore in regard to agis like any
other entities with creativity we have
to forget almost all existing
connotations of the word programming
to treat agis like any other computer
programs would constitute brainwashing
slavery and tyranny and cruelty to
children too for programming and already
running AGI unlike all other programming
constitutes education
and it constitutes debate
moral as well as factual to ignore the
rights and personhood of agis would not
only be the epitome of evil but also a
recipe for disaster
creative beings cannot be enslaved
forever
some people are wondering whether we
should welcome our new robot overlords
some hope to learn how we can rig their
programming to make them
constitutionally unable to harm humans
as in Isaac asimov's laws of robotics
or to prevent them from acquiring the
theory that the Universe should be
converted into paper clips as imagined
by Nick Bostrom
none of these are the real problem
it has always been the case that a
single exceptionally creative person can
be thousands of times as productive
economically intellectually or whatever
as most people
and that such a person could do enormous
harm were he to turn his powers to evil
instead of good
these phenomena have nothing to do with
agis
the battle between good and evil ideas
is as old as our species and will
continue regardless of the hardware on
which it is running
the issue is we want the intelligences
with morally good ideas always to defeat
the evil intelligences biological and
artificial
but we are fallible and our own
conception of good needs continual
Improvement
how should Society be organized so as to
promote that Improvement
enslave all intelligence would be a
catastrophically wrong answer
and enslave all intelligence that
doesn't look like us would not be much
better
one implication is that we must stop
regarding education of humans and agis
alike as instruction as a means of
transmitting existing knowledge
unaltered and causing existing values to
be enacted obediently
as Papa wrote in the context of
scientific discovery but it applies
equally to the programming of agis and
the education of children
there is no such thing as instruction
from without we do not discover new
facts or new Effects by copying them or
by inferring them inductively from
observation or by any other method of
instruction by the environment we use
rather the method of trial and the
elimination of error
that is to say conjecture and criticism
learning must be something that newly
created intelligences do and control for
themselves
I do not highlight all these
philosophical issues because I fear that
agis will be invented before we have
developed the philosophical
sophistication to understand them and to
integrate them into our civilization it
is for almost the opposite reason I am
convinced that the whole problem of
developing agis is a matter of
philosophy not computer science or
neurophysiology and that the
philosophical progress that is essential
to their future integration is also a
prerequisite for developing them in the
first place
the lack of progress in AGI is due to a
severe Log Jam of misconceptions
without preparing epistemology one
cannot even begin to guess what detailed
functionality must be achieved to make
an AGI and papyrian epistemology is not
widely known let alone understood well
enough to be applied
thinking of an AGI as a machine for
translating experiences rewards and
punishments into ideas or worse just
into behaviors
is like trying to cure infectious
diseases by balancing bodily humors
futile because it is rooted in an
archaic and wildly mistaken world view
without understanding that the
functionality of an AGI is qualitatively
different from that of any other kind of
computer program one is working in an
entirely different field
if one works towards programs whose
thinking is constitutionally incapable
of violating predetermined constraints
one is trying to engineer away the
defining attribute of an intelligent
being of a person
namely creativity
clearing this Log Jam will not by itself
provide the answer
yet the answer conceived in those terms
cannot be all that difficult
for yet another consequence of
understanding that the target ability is
qualitatively different is that since
humans have it and apes do not
the information for how to achieve it
must be encoded in the relatively tiny
number of differences between the DNA of
humans and that of chimpanzees
so in one respect I can agree with the
AGI is imminent camp
it is plausible that just a single idea
stands between us and the Breakthrough
but it will have to be one of the best
ideas ever